= UA Tokenizer

* http://yaks.me/ua_tokenizer

== Description

Parse User-Agent strings into logical parts.

== Usage

UATokenizer will try to break up User-Agent strings into what looks like
logical, meaningful parts, and optionally an attached version. If no version
is found for a token, its value is true. Here's an example:

  ua = "SAMSUNG-GT-B5310/B5310MBJF1 SHP/VPP/R5 Dolfin/1.5 Nextreaming \
  SMM-MMS/1.2.0 profile/MIDP-2.1 configuration/CLDC-1.1"

  tokens = UATokenizer.parse ua

  tokens[:configuration]      #=> "cldc-1.1"
  tokens[:dolfin]             #=> "1.5"
  tokens[:nokia_c3]           #=> "03.35"

  tokens[:samsung]            #=> "B5310MBJF1"
  tokens[:gt_b5310]           #=> "B5310MBJF1"

  tokens[:nextreaming]        #=> true

Additionally, certain tokens will be identified as a screen size, browser
security level, or localization and may be retrieved via their respective
attributes:

  ua = "Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux i686; U; en-US) Gecko/20081217 \
  Vision-Browser/8.1 301x200 LG VN530"

  tokens = UATokenizer.parse ua

  tokens.screen               #=> [301, 200]
  tokens.localization         #=> "en-us"
  tokens.security             #=> "U"

  tokens[:gecko]              #=> "2008.12.17"
  tokens[:lg_vn530]           #=> true

Some helper methods make checking token versions easier, assuming the
previous example:

  tokens.has?(:gecko,   ">=2005.01.10") #=> true
  tokens.has?(:mozilla, "<5.0")         #=> false
  tokens.has?(:linux,   ">1.0")         #=> false (linux token has no version)

  tokens.any?(:lg, :samsung, :nokia)    #=> true
  tokens.all?(:lg, :samsung, :nokia)    #=> false

Unfortunately, many proper names in user agents vary from one browser or device
to another. UATokenizer does have a simple mapping mechanism to account for
variations such as "symb", "symbian", "sam", "samsung", "mot, "motorolla".
This mapping may be modified at need and is defined as such:

  UATokenizer::TOKEN_MAPS = {
    'black_berry' => 'blackberry',
    'crios'       => 'chrome',
    'fb'          => 'facebook',
    'lge'         => 'lg',
    'mot'         => 'motorolla',
    's40'         => 'series_40',
    's60'         => 'series_60',
    'sam'         => 'samsung',
    'symb'        => 'symbian'
  }

== Install

* gem install ua_tokenizer

== Developers

After checking out the source, run:

  $ rake newb

This task will install any missing dependencies, run the tests/specs,
and generate the RDoc.

== License

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2012 Jeremie Castagna

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
